website/docs/using-daypicker/styling.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Styling

DayPicker comes with a minimal style inspired by MacOS date pickers, designed to be extended and customized.

You can also use your own styles, or use a CSS framework like [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) or [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) utilities to style the calendar.

## Default Style

To start with the included styles, add the `react-day-picker/style.css` to your HTML document. This will add the `.rdp` class names used by DayPicker.

<details>
<summary>Using a bundler or a React framework</summary>

If you are using a React framework, such as [Next.js](http://nextjs.org) or [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com), or a bundler like Webpack with [css-loader](https://webpack.js.org/loaders/css-loader/), import the CSS file from your app's main JavaScript or TypeScript file:

```tsx title="./App.jsx"
import "react-day-picker/style.css";
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Copying the CSS file</summary>

If you are not using a bundler, you can copy the CSS file to your project. See [style.css](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/blob/main/src/style.css) in the DayPicker repository for the source.

```html title="./public/index.html"
<style>
  /* Copy the content of the style.css file here. */
</style>
```

</details>

### CSS Variables

The default styles use CSS variables that can be overridden to customize the appearance of the calendar. Define the CSS variables in your app's CSS file, after importing the DayPicker CSS file:

```css title="./app/global.css"
@import "react-day-picker/style.css";

:root {
  --rdp-accent-color: indigo; /* Change the accent color to indigo. */
}
```

The following table lists the CSS variables used by DayPicker:

| CSS Variable Name                   | Description                                                         |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--rdp-accent-color`                | The accent color used for selected days and UI elements.            |
| `--rdp-day-border-radius`           | The border radius of the day cells.                                 |
| `--rdp-day-border`                  | The border of the day cells.                                        |
| `--rdp-day-font`                    | The font used for the day cells.                                    |
| `--rdp-day-height`                  | The height of the day cells.                                        |
| `--rdp-day-width`                   | The width of the day cells.                                         |
| `--rdp-disabled-opacity`            | The opacity of the disabled days.                                   |
| `--rdp-excluded-opacity`            | The opacity of the excluded days.                                   |
| `--rdp-font-family`                 | The font family used by the calendar (`inherited` won't work here). |
| `--rdp-month-caption-font`          | The font of the month caption.                                      |
| `--rdp-months-gap`                  | The gap between the months in the multi-month view.                 |
| `--rdp-nav-button-border-radius`    | The border radius of the navigation buttons.                        |
| `--rdp-nav-button-disabled-opacity` | The opacity of the disabled navigation buttons.                     |
| `--rdp-nav-button-height`           | The height of the navigation buttons.                               |
| `--rdp-nav-button-width`            | The width of the navigation buttons.                                |
| `--rdp-nav-height`                  | The height of the navigation bar.                                   |
| `--rdp-outside-opacity`             | The opacity of the days outside the current month.                  |
| `--rdp-range-background-color`      | The color of the range background.                                  |
| `--rdp-range-color`                 | The color of the range text.                                        |
| `--rdp-selected-border`             | The border of the selected days.                                    |
| `--rdp-selected-font`               | The font of the selected days.                                      |
| `--rdp-today-color`                 | The color of today's date.                                          |
| `--rdp-weekday-font`                | The font of the weekday.                                            |
| `--rdp-weekday-opacity`             | The opacity of the weekday.                                         |
| `--rdp-weekday-padding`             | The padding of the weekday.                                         |
| `--rdp-weekday-text-align`          | The text alignment of the weekday cells.                            |
| `--rdp-week_number-border-radius`   | The border radius of the week number.                               |
| `--rdp-week_number-border`          | The border of the week number.                                      |
| `--rdp-week_number-font`            | The font of the week number cells.                                  |
| `--rdp-week_number-height`          | The height of the week number cells.                                |
| `--rdp-week_number-opacity`         | The opacity of the week number.                                     |
| `--rdp-week_number-width`           | The width of the week number cells.                                 |

### Light/Dark Appearance

To toggle between dark and light appearance, override the accent color with the color to use in the dark mode.

```css
:root {
  --rdp-accent-color: blue; /* Use blue as the accent color. */
}
[data-theme="dark"] {
  --rdp-accent-color: yellow; /* Use yellow as the accent color in dark mode. */
}
```

### Importing the CSS Module

You can import `style.module.css` if you want your CSS pre-processor to parse it. Pass the imported styles to the `classNames` prop.

```tsx title="./MyDatePicker.jsx"
import { DayPicker } from "react-day-picker";
import styles from "react-day-picker/style.module.css";

console.log(styles); // Output the class names as parsed by CSS modules.

export function MyDatePicker() {
  return <DayPicker classNames={styles} />;
}
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.CssModules />
</BrowserWindow>
## Custom Class Names

Use the `classNames` prop to use other classnames instead of the default ones. The [`ClassNames`](../api/type-aliases/ClassNames.md) type lists all the class names used by DayPicker. They are the value of the [`UI`](../api/enumerations/UI.md), [`DayModifiers`](../api/enumerations/DayModifier.md) and [`CalendarFlag`](../api/enumerations/CalendarFlag.md) enums.

For example, to change the class name of the calendar container:

```tsx
<DayPicker classNames={{ calendar: "my-calendar" }} />
```

Or the disabled days:

```jsx
<DayPicker classNames={{ disabled: "my-disabled_style" }} />
```

### Tailwind CSS

If you are including [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) in your project, use the Tailwind CSS class names to style the calendar.

- Add to the `classNames` the class names you want to override.
- Extend the default class names with [`getDefaultClassNames`](../api/functions//getDefaultClassNames.md).
- Read [`style.css`](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/blob/main/src/style.css) from source and get familiar with the [UI elements](../using-daypicker/anatomy.mdx).
- Adopt [custom components](../using-daypicker/custom-components.mdx) to further customize the HTML elements.

```tsx
import { DayPicker, getDefaultClassNames } from "react-day-picker";

export function MyCalendar() {
  const defaultClassNames = getDefaultClassNames();
  return (
    <DayPicker
      mode="single"
      classNames={{
        today: `border-amber-500`, // Add a border to today's date
        selected: `bg-amber-500 border-amber-500 text-white`, // Highlight the selected day
        calendar: `${defaultClassNames.calendar} shadow-lg p-5` // Add a shadow to the calendar
        chevron: `${defaultClassNames.chevron} fill-amber-500` // Change the color of the chevron
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.TailwindCSS />
</BrowserWindow>

:::info TailwindCSS-only CSS

We currently don't have a CSS file _completely_ written in TailwindCSS. If you want, you can help us to create one to include in the docs here. [Open a thread](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/discussions/new?category=ideas)

:::

## Inline Styles

To change the appearance of any DayPicker element via inline-styles use the `styles` prop.

```tsx
const monthCaptionStyle = {
  borderBottom: "1px solid currentColor",
  paddingBottom: "0.5em"
};
// ...
<DayPicker
  styles={{
    month_caption: monthCaptionStyle
  }}
/>;
```

Commit message:

fix(style): add --rdp-dropdown-gap css variable

website/docs/using-daypicker/styling.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Styling

DayPicker comes with a minimal style inspired by MacOS date pickers, designed to be extended and customized.

You can also use your own styles, or use a CSS framework like [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) or [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) utilities to style the calendar.

## Default Style

To start with the included styles, add the `react-day-picker/style.css` to your HTML document. This will add the `.rdp` class names used by DayPicker.

<details>
<summary>Using a bundler or a React framework</summary>

If you are using a React framework, such as [Next.js](http://nextjs.org) or [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com), or a bundler like Webpack with [css-loader](https://webpack.js.org/loaders/css-loader/), import the CSS file from your app's main JavaScript or TypeScript file:

```tsx title="./App.jsx"
import "react-day-picker/style.css";
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Copying the CSS file</summary>

If you are not using a bundler, you can copy the CSS file to your project. See [style.css](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/blob/main/src/style.css) in the DayPicker repository for the source.

```html title="./public/index.html"
<style>
  /* Copy the content of the style.css file here. */
</style>
```

</details>

### CSS Variables

The default styles use CSS variables that can be overridden to customize the appearance of the calendar. Define the CSS variables in your app's CSS file, after importing the DayPicker CSS file:

```css title="./app/global.css"
@import "react-day-picker/style.css";

:root {
  --rdp-accent-color: indigo; /* Change the accent color to indigo. */
}
```

The following table lists the CSS variables used by DayPicker:

| CSS Variable Name                   | Description                                                         |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--rdp-accent-color`                | The accent color used for selected days and UI elements.            |
| `--rdp-day-border-radius`           | The border radius of the day cells.                                 |
| `--rdp-day-border`                  | The border of the day cells.                                        |
| `--rdp-day-font`                    | The font used for the day cells.                                    |
| `--rdp-day-height`                  | The height of the day cells.                                        |
| `--rdp-day-width`                   | The width of the day cells.                                         |
| `--rdp-disabled-opacity`            | The opacity of the disabled days.                                   |
| `--rdp-dropdown-gap`                | The distance bete=ween the dropdowns.                               |
| `--rdp-excluded-opacity`            | The opacity of the excluded days.                                   |
| `--rdp-font-family`                 | The font family used by the calendar (`inherited` won't work here). |
| `--rdp-month-caption-font`          | The font of the month caption.                                      |
| `--rdp-months-gap`                  | The distance between the month grids in the multi-month view.       |
| `--rdp-nav-button-border-radius`    | The border radius of the navigation buttons.                        |
| `--rdp-nav-button-disabled-opacity` | The opacity of the disabled navigation buttons.                     |
| `--rdp-nav-button-height`           | The height of the navigation buttons.                               |
| `--rdp-nav-button-width`            | The width of the navigation buttons.                                |
| `--rdp-nav-height`                  | The height of the navigation bar.                                   |
| `--rdp-outside-opacity`             | The opacity of the days outside the current month.                  |
| `--rdp-range-background-color`      | The color of the range background.                                  |
| `--rdp-range-color`                 | The color of the range text.                                        |
| `--rdp-selected-border`             | The border of the selected days.                                    |
| `--rdp-selected-font`               | The font of the selected days.                                      |
| `--rdp-today-color`                 | The color of today's date.                                          |
| `--rdp-weekday-font`                | The font of the weekday.                                            |
| `--rdp-weekday-opacity`             | The opacity of the weekday.                                         |
| `--rdp-weekday-padding`             | The padding of the weekday.                                         |
| `--rdp-weekday-text-align`          | The text alignment of the weekday cells.                            |
| `--rdp-week_number-border-radius`   | The border radius of the week number.                               |
| `--rdp-week_number-border`          | The border of the week number.                                      |
| `--rdp-week_number-font`            | The font of the week number cells.                                  |
| `--rdp-week_number-height`          | The height of the week number cells.                                |
| `--rdp-week_number-opacity`         | The opacity of the week number.                                     |
| `--rdp-week_number-width`           | The width of the week number cells.                                 |

### Light/Dark Appearance

To toggle between dark and light appearance, override the accent color with the color to use in the dark mode.

```css
:root {
  --rdp-accent-color: blue; /* Use blue as the accent color. */
}
[data-theme="dark"] {
  --rdp-accent-color: yellow; /* Use yellow as the accent color in dark mode. */
}
```

### Importing the CSS Module

You can import `style.module.css` if you want your CSS pre-processor to parse it. Pass the imported styles to the `classNames` prop.

```tsx title="./MyDatePicker.jsx"
import { DayPicker } from "react-day-picker";
import styles from "react-day-picker/style.module.css";

console.log(styles); // Output the class names as parsed by CSS modules.

export function MyDatePicker() {
  return <DayPicker classNames={styles} />;
}
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.CssModules />
</BrowserWindow>
## Custom Class Names

Use the `classNames` prop to use other classnames instead of the default ones. The [`ClassNames`](../api/type-aliases/ClassNames.md) type lists all the class names used by DayPicker. They are the value of the [`UI`](../api/enumerations/UI.md), [`DayModifiers`](../api/enumerations/DayModifier.md) and [`CalendarFlag`](../api/enumerations/CalendarFlag.md) enums.

For example, to change the class name of the calendar container:

```tsx
<DayPicker classNames={{ calendar: "my-calendar" }} />
```

Or the disabled days:

```jsx
<DayPicker classNames={{ disabled: "my-disabled_style" }} />
```

### Tailwind CSS

If you are including [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) in your project, use the Tailwind CSS class names to style the calendar.

- Add to the `classNames` the class names you want to override.
- Extend the default class names with [`getDefaultClassNames`](../api/functions//getDefaultClassNames.md).
- Read [`style.css`](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/blob/main/src/style.css) from source and get familiar with the [UI elements](../using-daypicker/anatomy.mdx).
- Adopt [custom components](../using-daypicker/custom-components.mdx) to further customize the HTML elements.

```tsx
import { DayPicker, getDefaultClassNames } from "react-day-picker";

export function MyCalendar() {
  const defaultClassNames = getDefaultClassNames();
  return (
    <DayPicker
      mode="single"
      classNames={{
        today: `border-amber-500`, // Add a border to today's date
        selected: `bg-amber-500 border-amber-500 text-white`, // Highlight the selected day
        calendar: `${defaultClassNames.calendar} shadow-lg p-5` // Add a shadow to the calendar
        chevron: `${defaultClassNames.chevron} fill-amber-500` // Change the color of the chevron
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.TailwindCSS />
</BrowserWindow>

:::info TailwindCSS-only CSS

We currently don't have a CSS file _completely_ written in TailwindCSS. If you want, you can help us to create one to include in the docs here. [Open a thread](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/discussions/new?category=ideas)

:::

## Inline Styles

To change the appearance of any DayPicker element via inline-styles use the `styles` prop.

```tsx
const monthCaptionStyle = {
  borderBottom: "1px solid currentColor",
  paddingBottom: "0.5em"
};
// ...
<DayPicker
  styles={{
    month_caption: monthCaptionStyle
  }}
/>;
```
