website/docs/localization/setting-time-zone.mdx, before:

---
title: Setting the Time Zone
sidebar_position: 2
---

DayPicker can render dates in a specific time zone so that what users see matches their local time or a time zone you explicitly choose. Internally, this is handled via the time zone support in [date-fns](https://date-fns.org/docs/Time-Zones).

By default, DayPicker uses the browser’s local time zone. You can override this with the `timeZone` prop.

The time zone can be specified as either an [IANA time zone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) identifier or a UTC offset.

| Prop Name  | Type     | Description                                            |
| ---------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `timeZone` | `string` | The IANA time zone to use when rendering the calendar. |

```tsx
<DayPicker timeZone="UTC" /> // Coordinated Universal Time
<DayPicker timeZone="Pacific/Honolulu" /> // US Hawaii Time
<DayPicker timeZone="Europe/Paris" /> // Central European Time
<DayPicker timeZone="UTC+2" /> // UTC plus 2 hours
<DayPicker timeZone="UTC-5" /> // UTC minus 5 hours
```

## Working with time-zoned dates

When working with time zones, use the `TZDate` object exported by `react-day-picker` instead of the native `Date` object. `TZDate` ensures your user interface always reads and writes dates in the time zone you specify.

```tsx
import React, { useState } from "react";
import { DayPicker, TZDate } from "react-day-picker";

export function TimeZone() {
  const timeZone = "Pacific/Honolulu";
  const [selected, setSelected] = useState<Date | undefined>(
    TZDate.tz(timeZone), // Use `TZDate` instead of `Date`
  );
  return (
    <DayPicker
      mode="single"
      timeZone={timeZone}
      selected={selected}
      onSelect={setSelected}
      footer={
        selected
          ? selected.toString()
          : `Pick a day to see it is in ${timeZone} time zone.`
      }
    />
  );
}
```

<BrowserWindow bodyStyle={{ justifyContent: "start" }}>
  <Examples.TimeZone />
</BrowserWindow>

Commit message:

feat: add experimental `noonSafe` prop for timezone offsets (#2879)
* docs: update time zone docs, add Asia/Saigon examples

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Export example

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Update test description

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Make test fail

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Detect duplicated dates

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Log duplicated days

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* feat: add noon date lib submodule

* fix: stabilize noonSafe for timezone calendars

* fix(playground): sync noonSafe in query string

* fix: normalize noonSafe week numbers and padding

* docs: note noonSafe is experimental

* docs: render simple noonSafe example

* docs: show selection with noonSafe example

* Reduce diff

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Lint

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Add more comments, cleanup

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Make sure convertMatcherToTimeZone also use noon dates

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Add test

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Make timezone mandatory

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* fix: keep noonSafe calendar math in target zones

* Remove extra import

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* fix: cover noonSafe persian dropdown

* chore(examples): toggle noonSafe reset selection

* chore(examples): keep noonSafe toggle without reset

---------

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

website/docs/localization/setting-time-zone.mdx, after:

---
title: Setting the Time Zone
sidebar_position: 2
---

DayPicker can render dates in a specific time zone so that what users see matches their local time or a time zone you explicitly choose. Internally, this is handled via the time zone support in [date-fns](https://date-fns.org/docs/Time-Zones).

By default, DayPicker uses the browser’s local time zone. You can override this with the `timeZone` prop.

The time zone can be specified as either an [IANA time zone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) identifier or a UTC offset.

| Prop Name  | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                                |
| ---------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `timeZone` | `string`  | The IANA time zone to use when rendering the calendar.                                                                                                     |
| `noonSafe` | `boolean` | Experimental (see below). Keep calendar math at noon in the time zone to avoid historical drift and use when your time zone shows duplicated/missing days. |

```tsx
<DayPicker timeZone="UTC" /> // Coordinated Universal Time
<DayPicker timeZone="Pacific/Honolulu" /> // US Hawaii Time
<DayPicker timeZone="Europe/Paris" /> // Central European Time
<DayPicker timeZone="UTC+2" /> // UTC plus 2 hours
<DayPicker timeZone="UTC-5" /> // UTC minus 5 hours
```

## Working with time-zoned dates

When working with time zones, use the `TZDate` object exported by `react-day-picker` instead of the native `Date` object. `TZDate` ensures your user interface always reads and writes dates in the time zone you specify.

```tsx
import React, { useState } from "react";
import { DayPicker, TZDate } from "react-day-picker";

export function TimeZone() {
  const timeZone = "Pacific/Honolulu";
  const [selected, setSelected] = useState<Date | undefined>(
    TZDate.tz(timeZone), // Use `TZDate` instead of `Date`
  );
  return (
    <DayPicker
      mode="single"
      timeZone={timeZone}
      selected={selected}
      onSelect={setSelected}
      footer={
        selected
          ? selected.toString()
          : `Pick a day to see it is in ${timeZone} time zone.`
      }
    />
  );
}
```

<BrowserWindow bodyStyle={{ justifyContent: "start" }}>
  <Examples.TimeZone />
</BrowserWindow>

## Historical time zones with second offsets

Some historical time zones use offsets with seconds (for example `Asia/Dubai` in
1900 is `+03:41:12`). JavaScript `Date` and `date-fns` round offsets to minutes,
which can push midnight calculations into the previous day. Set `noonSafe` to
keep calendar math at 12:00 in the chosen time zone so the date never drifts.

```ts
const timeZone = "Asia/Dubai";

<DayPicker timeZone={timeZone} weekStartsOn={1} noonSafe />;
```

This override is optional and only needed when you render months that include
offsets with seconds and want to avoid duplicate or missing days in the grid. Use
it when you notice time-zone related glitches such as missing days, duplicate
days, or unexpected week padding.

<BrowserWindow bodyStyle={{ justifyContent: "start" }}>
  <Examples.TimeZoneNoonSafeSimple />
</BrowserWindow>
