website/docs/docs/customization.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Customization

Use the customization props to tailor the calendar's appearance.

| Prop Name         | Type                                                                         | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `captionLayout`   | `"label"`<br/> `"dropdown"`<br/> `"dropdown-months"`<br/> `"dropdown-years"` | Choose the layout of the month caption. Default is `label`.                                                                                 |
| `navLayout`       | `"around"` \| `"after"`                                                      | Adjust the positioning of the navigation buttons.                                                                                           |
| `fixedWeeks`      | `boolean`                                                                    | Display 6 weeks per month.                                                                                                                  |
| `footer`          | `ReactNode` \| `string`                                                      | Add a footer to the calendar, acting as a [live region](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Live_Regions). |
| `hideWeekdays`    | `boolean`                                                                    | Hide the row displaying the weekday names.                                                                                                  |
| `numberOfMonths`  | `number`                                                                     | The number of displayed months. Default is `1`.                                                                                             |
| `showOutsideDays` | `boolean`                                                                    | Display the days falling into other months.                                                                                                 |
| `showWeekNumber`  | `boolean`                                                                    | Display the column with the [week numbers](#showweeknumber).                                                                                |

## Caption Layouts

Use the `captionLayout` prop to customize the layout of the month caption.

```tsx
<DayPicker captionLayout="label" /> // Default value: shows the month and year.
```

| Caption Layout      | Description                                            |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `"label"`           | Displays the month and year as a label. Default value. |
| `"dropdown"`        | Displays dropdowns for both month and year navigation. |
| `"dropdown-months"` | Displays a dropdown only for the month navigation.     |
| `"dropdown-years"`  | Displays a dropdown only for the year navigation.      |

### Caption Dropdown

To enable a navigation dropdown, set `captionLayout="dropdown"`. Use the `startMonth` and `endMonth` properties to define the start and end dates for the calendar navigation.

```tsx
<DayPicker
  captionLayout="dropdown"
  defaultMonth={new Date(2024, 6)}
  startMonth={new Date(2024, 6)}
  endMonth={new Date(2025, 9)}
/>
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Dropdown />
</BrowserWindow>

:::info Default Range

Without specifying the `startMonth` and `endMonth` properties, the dropdown will display the last 100 years.

:::

## Navigation Layouts

Use the `navLayout` prop to adjust the positioning of the navigation buttons.

| Navigation Layout | Description                                                                                |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `"around"`        | Buttons are displayed on either side of the caption.                                       |
| `"after"`         | Buttons are displayed after the caption, ensuring the tab order matches the visual order.  |
| `undefined`       | Buttons are displayed after the caption, but the tab order may not match the visual order. |

```tsx
<DayPicker navLayout="around" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.NavLayout />
</BrowserWindow>

```tsx
<DayPicker navLayout="after" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.NavLayoutAfter />
</BrowserWindow>

See [Navigation](./navigation.mdx) for additional ways to customize the calendar’s navigation.

:::info Tab Order vs. Visual Order

If not set, the navigation buttons default to being displayed after the caption. However, the tab order may not align with the visual order when setting `"dropdown"` as caption layout. To ensure the component [remains accessible](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#focus-order), set `navLayout` to `"after"` or to `"around"` instead of leaving it undefined.

In a future version, the default behavior will be changed to `"after"`.

:::

## Outside Days

By default, DayPicker hides the days falling into other months. Use `showOutsideDays` to display them.

```tsx
<DayPicker showOutsideDays />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.OutsideDays />
</BrowserWindow>

## Fixed Weeks

In a year, months can have between 4 and 6 weeks. Use the `fixedWeeks` prop to always display 6 weeks per month. This will prevent the grid from changing its height while navigating the calendar.

```tsx
<DayPicker fixedWeeks showWeekNumber />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.FixedWeeks />
</BrowserWindow>

## Multiple Months {#multiplemonths}

To display multiple months in the calendar, use the `numberOfMonths` prop.

| Prop Name         | Type      | Description                                     |
| ----------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `numberOfMonths`  | `number`  | The number of displayed months. Default is `1`. |
| `pagedNavigation` | `boolean` | Paginate the navigation.                        |
| `reverseMonths`   | `boolean` | Render multiple months in reversed order.       |

```tsx
<DayPicker numberOfMonths={2} />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.MultipleMonths />
</BrowserWindow>

### Paged Navigation

With `pagedNavigation`, the navigation jumps by the specified number of months at a time.

```tsx
<DayPicker numberOfMonths={2} pagedNavigation />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.MultipleMonthsPaged />
</BrowserWindow>

## Week Numbers {#showweeknumber}

To display the column with week numbers, use the `showWeekNumber` prop.

| Prop Name        | Type      | Description               |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------------------------- |
| `showWeekNumber` | `boolean` | Display the week numbers. |

```tsx
<DayPicker showWeekNumber />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Weeknumber />
</BrowserWindow>

### Handling Week Numbers Click

To handle clicks on the week numbers, you can set the `WeekNumber` [custom component](../guides/custom-components.mdx):

```tsx
<DayPicker
  showWeekNumber
  components={{
    WeekNumber: (props) => (
      <button onClick={() => alert(`Week ${props.weekNumber}`)}>
        {props.weekNumber}
      </button>
    ),
  }}
/>
```

### Selecting the Whole Week

In [selection mode](./selection-modes.mdx), you can create a [custom selection](../guides/custom-selections.mdx) that selects the entire week when a day is clicked.

## Footer as Live Region

Use the `footer` prop to display a footer below the calendar. The footer acts as a [live region](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Live_Regions) to announce changes to screen readers. For more information on making the calendar accessible, see the [Accessibility guide](../guides/accessibility.mdx).

```tsx
export function Footer() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState<Date>();
  return (
    <DayPicker
      mode="single"
      selected={selected}
      onSelect={setSelected}
      footer={
        selected
          ? `You picked ${selected.toLocaleDateString()}.`
          : "Please pick a date."
      }
    />
  );
}
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Footer />
</BrowserWindow>

## Custom Components

In DayPicker, you can replace the components used internally to render the calendar. For more information, see the [Custom Components](../guides/custom-components.mdx) guide.

| Prop Name    | Type                                              | Description                                                 |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `components` | [`CustomComponents`](../api/index.md#components)  | Change the internal components used to render the calendar. |
| `classNames` | [`ClassNames`](../api/type-aliases/ClassNames.md) | Use custom class names instead of the default ones.         |

Commit message:

Add an option to reverse the years in the dropdown Fixes #2819

website/docs/docs/customization.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Customization

Use the customization props to tailor the calendar's appearance.

| Prop Name         | Type                                                                         | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `captionLayout`   | `"label"`<br/> `"dropdown"`<br/> `"dropdown-months"`<br/> `"dropdown-years"` | Choose the layout of the month caption. Default is `label`.                                                                                 |
| `reverseYears`    | `boolean`                                                                    | Reverse the order of the years in the dropdown.                                                                                             |
| `navLayout`       | `"around"` \| `"after"`                                                      | Adjust the positioning of the navigation buttons.                                                                                           |
| `fixedWeeks`      | `boolean`                                                                    | Display 6 weeks per month.                                                                                                                  |
| `footer`          | `ReactNode` \| `string`                                                      | Add a footer to the calendar, acting as a [live region](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Live_Regions). |
| `hideWeekdays`    | `boolean`                                                                    | Hide the row displaying the weekday names.                                                                                                  |
| `numberOfMonths`  | `number`                                                                     | The number of displayed months. Default is `1`.                                                                                             |
| `reverseMonths`   | `boolean`                                                                    | When displaying multiple months, reverse the order of the months.                                                                           |
| `pagedNavigation` | `boolean`                                                                    | Enable paginated navigation when displaying multiple months.                                                                                |
| `showOutsideDays` | `boolean`                                                                    | Display the days falling into other months.                                                                                                 |
| `showWeekNumber`  | `boolean`                                                                    | Display the column with the [week numbers](#showweeknumber).                                                                                |

## Caption Layouts

Use the `captionLayout` prop to customize the layout of the month caption.

```tsx
<DayPicker captionLayout="label" /> // Default value: shows the month and year.
```

| Caption Layout      | Description                                            |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `"label"`           | Displays the month and year as a label. Default value. |
| `"dropdown"`        | Displays dropdowns for both month and year navigation. |
| `"dropdown-months"` | Displays a dropdown only for the month navigation.     |
| `"dropdown-years"`  | Displays a dropdown only for the year navigation.      |

### Caption Dropdown

To enable a navigation dropdown, set `captionLayout` to `dropdown`, `dropdown-months`, or `dropdown-years`.

- When displaying the dropdown for the years, use the `reverseYears` prop to reverse the order of the years.
- Use the `startMonth` and `endMonth` properties to define the start and end dates for the calendar navigation.

:::info Default Range

Without specifying the `startMonth` and `endMonth` properties, the dropdown will display the last 100 years.

:::

#### Example

```tsx
<DayPicker
  captionLayout="dropdown"
  defaultMonth={new Date(2024, 6)}
  startMonth={new Date(2024, 6)}
  endMonth={new Date(2025, 9)}
/>
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Dropdown />
</BrowserWindow>

## Navigation Layouts

Use the `navLayout` prop to adjust the positioning of the navigation buttons.

| Navigation Layout | Description                                                                                |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `"around"`        | Buttons are displayed on either side of the caption.                                       |
| `"after"`         | Buttons are displayed after the caption, ensuring the tab order matches the visual order.  |
| `undefined`       | Buttons are displayed after the caption, but the tab order may not match the visual order. |

```tsx
<DayPicker navLayout="around" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.NavLayout />
</BrowserWindow>

```tsx
<DayPicker navLayout="after" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.NavLayoutAfter />
</BrowserWindow>

See [Navigation](./navigation.mdx) for additional ways to customize the calendar’s navigation.

:::info Tab Order vs. Visual Order

If not set, the navigation buttons default to being displayed after the caption. However, the tab order may not align with the visual order when setting `"dropdown"` as caption layout. To ensure the component [remains accessible](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#focus-order), set `navLayout` to `"after"` or to `"around"` instead of leaving it undefined.

In a future version, the default behavior will be changed to `"after"`.

:::

## Outside Days

By default, DayPicker hides the days falling into other months. Use `showOutsideDays` to display them.

```tsx
<DayPicker showOutsideDays />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.OutsideDays />
</BrowserWindow>

## Fixed Weeks

In a year, months can have between 4 and 6 weeks. Use the `fixedWeeks` prop to always display 6 weeks per month. This will prevent the grid from changing its height while navigating the calendar.

```tsx
<DayPicker fixedWeeks showWeekNumber />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.FixedWeeks />
</BrowserWindow>

## Multiple Months {#multiplemonths}

To display multiple months in the calendar, use the `numberOfMonths` prop.

| Prop Name         | Type      | Description                                     |
| ----------------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `numberOfMonths`  | `number`  | The number of displayed months. Default is `1`. |
| `pagedNavigation` | `boolean` | Paginate the navigation.                        |
| `reverseMonths`   | `boolean` | Render multiple months in reversed order.       |

```tsx
<DayPicker numberOfMonths={2} />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.MultipleMonths />
</BrowserWindow>

### Paged Navigation

With `pagedNavigation`, the navigation jumps by the specified number of months at a time.

```tsx
<DayPicker numberOfMonths={2} pagedNavigation />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.MultipleMonthsPaged />
</BrowserWindow>

## Week Numbers {#showweeknumber}

To display the column with week numbers, use the `showWeekNumber` prop.

| Prop Name        | Type      | Description               |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------------------------- |
| `showWeekNumber` | `boolean` | Display the week numbers. |

```tsx
<DayPicker showWeekNumber />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Weeknumber />
</BrowserWindow>

### Handling Week Numbers Click

To handle clicks on the week numbers, you can set the `WeekNumber` [custom component](../guides/custom-components.mdx):

```tsx
<DayPicker
  showWeekNumber
  components={{
    WeekNumber: (props) => (
      <button onClick={() => alert(`Week ${props.weekNumber}`)}>
        {props.weekNumber}
      </button>
    ),
  }}
/>
```

### Selecting the Whole Week

In [selection mode](./selection-modes.mdx), you can create a [custom selection](../guides/custom-selections.mdx) that selects the entire week when a day is clicked.

## Footer as Live Region

Use the `footer` prop to display a footer below the calendar. The footer acts as a [live region](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Live_Regions) to announce changes to screen readers. For more information on making the calendar accessible, see the [Accessibility guide](../guides/accessibility.mdx).

```tsx
export function Footer() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState<Date>();
  return (
    <DayPicker
      mode="single"
      selected={selected}
      onSelect={setSelected}
      footer={
        selected
          ? `You picked ${selected.toLocaleDateString()}.`
          : "Please pick a date."
      }
    />
  );
}
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Footer />
</BrowserWindow>

## Custom Components

In DayPicker, you can replace the components used internally to render the calendar. For more information, see the [Custom Components](../guides/custom-components.mdx) guide.

| Prop Name    | Type                                              | Description                                                 |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `components` | [`CustomComponents`](../api/index.md#components)  | Change the internal components used to render the calendar. |
| `classNames` | [`ClassNames`](../api/type-aliases/ClassNames.md) | Use custom class names instead of the default ones.         |
