website/docs/docs/selection-modes.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Selection Modes

DayPicker provides predefined rules for day selection:

- [Single mode](#single-mode): allows selection of a single day.
- [Multiple mode](#multiple-mode): enables selection of multiple individual days.
- [Range mode](#range-mode): allows the selection of a continuous range of days.

The `mode` prop determines the selection mode. The `disabled` prop can be used to prevent the selection of specific days. The `selected` and `onSelect` props offer customization of the selection process.

| Prop Name  | Type                                                                                 | Description                             |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| `mode`     | `"single"` \| `"multiple"` \| `"range"`                                              | Enter a selection mode.                 |
| `disabled` | [`Matcher`](../api/type-aliases/Matcher.md) \| `Matcher[]`                           | Disabled days that cannot be selected.  |
| `selected` | `Date` \| `Date[]` \| [`DateRange`](../api/type-aliases/DateRange.md) \| `undefined` | The selected day(s).                    |
| `required` | `boolean`                                                                            | When `true`, the selection is required. |
| `onSelect` | `(selected, triggerDate, modifiers, e) => void`                                      | Event callback when a date is selected. |

## Single Mode

When the `mode` prop is set to `"single"`, only one day can be selected.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="single" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Single />
</BrowserWindow>

### Single Mode Props

| Prop Name  | Type                                            | Description                             |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `selected` | `Date \| undefined`                             | The selected date.                      |
| `onSelect` | `(selected, triggerDate, modifiers, e) => void` | Event callback when a date is selected. |
| `required` | `boolean`                                       | Make the selection required.            |

Use the `selected` and `onSelect` props to control the selected date:

```tsx
export function App() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState<Date | undefined>();

  return <DayPicker mode="single" selected={selected} onSelect={setSelected} />;
}
```

### Required Selection

By setting the `required` prop, DayPicker won't allow the user to unselect the selected date.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="single" required />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.SingleRequired />
</BrowserWindow>

## Multiple Mode

By setting the `mode` prop to `"multiple"`, DayPicker allows selecting multiple days.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="multiple" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Multiple />
</BrowserWindow>

### Multiple Mode Props

| Prop Name  | Type                                            | Description                             |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `selected` | `Date[] \| undefined`                           | The selected dates.                     |
| `onSelect` | `(selected, triggerDate, modifiers, e) => void` | Event callback when a date is selected. |
| `min`      | `number`                                        | The minimum dates that can be selected. |
| `max`      | `number`                                        | The maximum dates that can be selected. |

Use the `selected` and `onSelect` props to control the selected date:

```tsx
export function App() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState<Date[] | undefined>();

  return (
    <DayPicker mode="multiple" selected={selected} onSelect={setSelected} />
  );
}
```

### Min and Max Dates

Use the `min` and `max` props to limit the number of selectable dates.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="multiple" min={2} max={5} />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.MultipleMinMax />
</BrowserWindow>

### Required Selection

By setting the `required` prop, DayPicker requires at least one date to be selected.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="multiple" required selected={[new Date()]} />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.MultipleRequired />
</BrowserWindow>

## Range Mode

When the `mode` prop is set to `"range"`, DayPicker allows selecting a continuous range of dates.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="range" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Range />
</BrowserWindow>

### Range Mode Props

| Prop Name         | Type                                            | Description                             |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `selected`        | [`DateRange`](../api/type-aliases/DateRange.md) | The selected range.                     |
| `onSelect`        | `(selected, triggerDate, modifiers, e) => void` | Event callback when a date is selected. |
| `required`        | `boolean`                                       | Make the selection required.            |
| `min`             | `number`                                        | The minimum dates that can be selected. |
| `max`             | `number`                                        | The maximum dates that can be selected. |
| `excludeDisabled` | `boolean`                                       | Exclude disabled dates from the range.  |

### Min and Max Dates

As default, a range can have length of 0 nights, thus the start date can be the same as the end date. Use the `min` prop to set the minimum number of nights. The range will stay "open" until at least `min` nights are selected.

Similarly, you can se the `max` prop to set the maximum number of nights.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="range" min={1} max={6} />
```

<BrowserWindow bodyStyle={{ justifyContent: "start" }}>
  <Examples.RangeMinMax />
</BrowserWindow>

### Required Ranges

By setting the `required` prop, a range must be selected. 

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="range" required />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.RangeRequired />
</BrowserWindow>

## Disabling Dates

To disable specific days, use the `disabled` prop. Disabled dates cannot be selected.

The prop accepts a [`Matcher`](../api/type-aliases/Matcher.md) or an array of matchers that can be used to make some days not selectable.

```tsx
// disable today
<DayPicker mode="single" disabled={ new Date() } />

// disable weekends
<DayPicker mode="range" disabled={{ dayOfWeek: [0, 6] }} />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.ModifiersDisabled />
</BrowserWindow>

### Excluding Disabled Dates from Range {#exclude-disabled}

When using the `range` mode, disabled dates will be included in the selected range. Use the `excludeDisabled` prop to prevent this behavior. The range will reset when a disabled date is included.

```tsx
<DayPicker
  mode="range"
  // Disable weekends
  disabled={{ dayOfWeek: [0, 6] }}
  // Reset range when a disabled date is included
  excludeDisabled
/>
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.RangeExcludeDisabled />
</BrowserWindow>

## Customizing Selections

To change the behavior of a selection mode, use the `select` and `onSelect` props to handle the selection event and update the selected dates according to your app requirement:

```jsx
import { useState } from "react";

import { DayPicker } from "react-day-picker";

export function App() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = useState<Date[] | undefined>();
  const handleSelect = (newSelected) => {
    // Update the selected dates
    setSelected(newSelected);
  };
  return (
    <DayPicker mode="multiple" selected={selected} onSelect={handleSelect} />
  );
}
```

You can also toggle the selection mode to `default` and implement your own mode by using `modifiers` and `onDayClick`. Read the [Custom Selections](../guides/custom-selections.mdx) guide for more information.

Commit message:

feat: allow undefined as initially selected value
Allow setting `selected={undefined}` even when required is set. See #2334.

website/docs/docs/selection-modes.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Selection Modes

DayPicker provides predefined rules for day selection:

- [Single mode](#single-mode): allows selection of a single day.
- [Multiple mode](#multiple-mode): enables selection of multiple individual days.
- [Range mode](#range-mode): allows the selection of a continuous range of days.

The `mode` prop determines the selection mode. The `disabled` prop can be used to prevent the selection of specific days. The `selected` and `onSelect` props offer customization of the selection process.

| Prop Name  | Type                                                                                 | Description                             |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| `mode`     | `"single"` \| `"multiple"` \| `"range"`                                              | Enter a selection mode.                 |
| `disabled` | [`Matcher`](../api/type-aliases/Matcher.md) \| `Matcher[]`                           | Disabled days that cannot be selected.  |
| `selected` | `Date` \| `Date[]` \| [`DateRange`](../api/type-aliases/DateRange.md) \| `undefined` | The selected day(s).                    |
| `required` | `boolean`                                                                            | Make the selection required.            |
| `onSelect` | `(selected, date, modifiers, e) => void`                                             | Event callback when a date is selected. |

## Single Mode

When the `mode` prop is set to `"single"`, only one day can be selected.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="single" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Single />
</BrowserWindow>

### Single Mode Props

| Prop Name  | Type                                     | Description                             |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `selected` | `Date \| undefined`                      | The selected date.                      |
| `onSelect` | `(selected, date, modifiers, e) => void` | Event callback when a date is selected. |
| `required` | `boolean`                                | Make the selection required.            |

Use the `selected` and `onSelect` props to control the selected date:

```tsx
export function App() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState<Date | undefined>();

  return <DayPicker mode="single" selected={selected} onSelect={setSelected} />;
}
```

### Required Selection

By setting the `required` prop, DayPicker won't allow the user to unselect the selected date.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="single" required />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.SingleRequired />
</BrowserWindow>

## Multiple Mode

By setting the `mode` prop to `"multiple"`, DayPicker allows selecting multiple days.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="multiple" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Multiple />
</BrowserWindow>

### Multiple Mode Props

| Prop Name  | Type                                     | Description                             |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `selected` | `Date[] \| undefined`                    | The selected dates.                     |
| `onSelect` | `(selected, date, modifiers, e) => void` | Event callback when a date is selected. |
| `min`      | `number`                                 | The minimum dates that can be selected. |
| `max`      | `number`                                 | The maximum dates that can be selected. |
| `required` | `boolean`                                | Make the selection required.            |

Use the `selected` and `onSelect` props to control the selected date:

```tsx
export function App() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState<Date[] | undefined>();

  return (
    <DayPicker mode="multiple" selected={selected} onSelect={setSelected} />
  );
}
```

### Min and Max Dates

Use the `min` and `max` props to limit the number of selectable dates.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="multiple" min={2} max={5} />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.MultipleMinMax />
</BrowserWindow>

### Required Selection

By setting the `required` prop, DayPicker won't allow unselect the selected dates.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="multiple" required selected={[new Date()]} />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.MultipleRequired />
</BrowserWindow>

## Range Mode

When the `mode` prop is set to `"range"`, DayPicker allows selecting a continuous range of dates.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="range" />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.Range />
</BrowserWindow>

### Range Mode Props

| Prop Name         | Type                                            | Description                             |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `selected`        | [`DateRange`](../api/type-aliases/DateRange.md) | The selected range.                     |
| `onSelect`        | `(selected, date, modifiers, e) => void`        | Event callback when a date is selected. |
| `required`        | `boolean`                                       | Make the selection required.            |
| `min`             | `number`                                        | The minimum dates that can be selected. |
| `max`             | `number`                                        | The maximum dates that can be selected. |
| `excludeDisabled` | `boolean`                                       | Exclude disabled dates from the range.  |

### Min and Max Dates

As default, a range can have length of 0 nights, thus the start date can be the same as the end date. Use the `min` prop to set the minimum number of nights. The range will stay "open" until at least `min` nights are selected.

Similarly, you can se the `max` prop to set the maximum number of nights.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="range" min={1} max={6} />
```

<BrowserWindow bodyStyle={{ justifyContent: "start" }}>
  <Examples.RangeMinMax />
</BrowserWindow>

### Required Ranges

By setting the `required` prop, DayPicker won't allow unselect the selected range.

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="range" required />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.RangeRequired />
</BrowserWindow>

## Disabling Dates

To disable specific days, use the `disabled` prop. Disabled dates cannot be selected.

The prop accepts a [`Matcher`](../api/type-aliases/Matcher.md) or an array of matchers that can be used to make some days not selectable.

```tsx
// disable today
<DayPicker mode="single" disabled={ new Date() } />

// disable weekends
<DayPicker mode="range" disabled={{ dayOfWeek: [0, 6] }} />
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.ModifiersDisabled />
</BrowserWindow>

### Excluding Disabled Dates from Range {#exclude-disabled}

When using the `range` mode, disabled dates will be included in the selected range. Use the `excludeDisabled` prop to prevent this behavior. The range will reset when a disabled date is included.

```tsx
<DayPicker
  mode="range"
  // Disable weekends
  disabled={{ dayOfWeek: [0, 6] }}
  // Reset range when a disabled date is included
  excludeDisabled
/>
```

<BrowserWindow>
  <Examples.RangeExcludeDisabled />
</BrowserWindow>

## Customizing Selections

To change the behavior of a selection mode, use the `select` and `onSelect` props to handle the selection event and update the selected dates according to your app requirement:

```jsx
import { useState } from "react";

import { DayPicker } from "react-day-picker";

export function App() {
  const [selected, setSelected] = useState<Date[] | undefined>();
  const handleSelect = (newSelected) => {
    // Update the selected dates
    setSelected(newSelected);
  };
  return (
    <DayPicker mode="multiple" selected={selected} onSelect={handleSelect} />
  );
}
```

You can also toggle the selection mode to `default` and implement your own mode by using `modifiers` and `onDayClick`. Read the [Custom Selections](../guides/custom-selections.mdx) guide for more information.
