website/docs/guides/accessibility.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Accessible Date Pickers

DayPicker follows the [ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/dialog-modal/examples/datepicker-dialog/) for date pickers, including features like keyboard navigation, focus management, and labeling.

Depending on your design, you might need to add more accessibility features. For example, when using [Input Fields](../guides/input-fields.mdx), there may be some limitations based on your accessibility goals. Keep up with best practices by following the [ARIA Patterns](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/).

:::tip Accessibility Tips

- Test your date picker regularly with a screen reader to ensure accessibility.
- Use an `aria-live` region to announce when a date is selected, such as using the `footer` prop.
- Customize ARIA labels with the [`labels`](../api/interfaces/PropsBase.md#labels) prop for better user feedback.
- Maintain sufficient color contrast between text and background.
- Offer instructions for first-time users or those unfamiliar with the date picker.

:::

## Accessibility Props

| Prop Name    | Type                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `labels`     | [`Labels`](../api/type-aliases/Labels.md) | Map of the ARIA labels used within DayPicker for better accessibility.                                                                                                 |
| `footer`     | `ReactNode` \| `string`                   | Add a footer to the calendar, which can act as a [live region](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Live_Regions) to announce updates. |
| `role`       | `application` \| `dialog`                 | Set the ARIA role for the container. Use `application` for a more interactive widget or `dialog` for a modal-like date picker.                                         |
| `aria-label` | `string`                                  | The label to use for the container when a `role` is set, providing a descriptive text for screen readers.                                                              |
| `autoFocus`  | `boolean`                                 | Autofocus the calendar when it opens, improving keyboard navigation.                                                                                                   |

### Autofocusing the Calendar {#autofocus}

DayPicker automatically manages focus when users interact with the calendar. To enhance accessibility, you can autofocus the calendar when it opens by using the `autoFocus` prop:

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="single" autoFocus />
```

## Keyboard Navigation

DayPicker supports keyboard navigation to make it easier for users to navigate the calendar. The following keys are supported:

| Keys                           | Function                             |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------ |
| <kbd>Arrow Up</kbd>            | Move focus to the previous week.     |
| <kbd>Shift + Arrow Up</kbd>    | Move focus to the previous year.     |
| <kbd>Arrow Right</kbd>         | Move focus to the next day.          |
| <kbd>Shift + Arrow Right</kbd> | Move focus to the next month.        |
| <kbd>Arrow Down</kbd>          | Move focus to the next week.         |
| <kbd>Shift + Arrow Down</kbd>  | Move focus to the next year.         |
| <kbd>Arrow Left</kbd>          | Move focus to the previous day.      |
| <kbd>Shift + Arrow Left</kbd>  | Move focus to the previous month.    |
| <kbd>Page Up</kbd>             | Move focus to the previous month.    |
| <kbd>Page Down</kbd>           | Move focus to the next month.        |
| <kbd>Shift + Page Up</kbd>     | Move focus to the previous year.     |
| <kbd>Shift + Page Down</kbd>   | Move focus to the next year.         |
| <kbd>Home</kbd>                | Move focus to the start of the week. |
| <kbd>End</kbd>                 | Move focus to the end of the week.   |
| <kbd>Enter/Space</kbd>         | Select the focused day.              |

## Getting Help With Accessibility

Accessibility is an evolving field. If you find any accessibility issues with DayPicker, please [open an issue](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/issues/new/choose). Your feedback helps improve our library's accessibility.

Check out the [current accessibility issues](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Aaccessibility+sort%3Aupdated-desc).

Commit message:

feat: add aria-labelledby prop (#2828)
* feat: add aria-labelledby prop

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

* Update accessibility.mdx

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

---------

Signed-off-by: gpbl <io@gpbl.dev>

website/docs/guides/accessibility.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Accessible Date Pickers

DayPicker follows the [ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/dialog-modal/examples/datepicker-dialog/) for date pickers, including features like keyboard navigation, focus management, and labeling.

Depending on your design, you might need to add more accessibility features. For example, when using [Input Fields](../guides/input-fields.mdx), there may be some limitations based on your accessibility goals. Keep up with best practices by following the [ARIA Patterns](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/).

:::tip Accessibility Tips

- Test your date picker regularly with a screen reader to ensure accessibility.
- Use an `aria-live` region to announce when a date is selected, such as using the `footer` prop.
- Customize ARIA labels with the [`labels`](../api/interfaces/PropsBase.md#labels) prop for better user feedback.
- Maintain sufficient color contrast between text and background.
- Offer instructions for first-time users or those unfamiliar with the date picker.

:::

## Accessibility Props

| Prop Name         | Type                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `labels`          | [`Labels`](../api/type-aliases/Labels.md) | Map of the ARIA labels used within DayPicker for better accessibility.                                                                                                 |
| `footer`          | `ReactNode` \| `string`                   | Add a footer to the calendar, which can act as a [live region](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Live_Regions) to announce updates. |
| `role`            | `application` \| `dialog`                 | Set the ARIA role for the container. Use `application` for a more interactive widget or `dialog` for a modal-like date picker.                                         |
| `aria-label`      | `string`                                  | The label to use for the container when a `role` is set, providing a descriptive text for screen readers.                                                              |
| `aria-labelledby` | `string`                                  | Reference another element that describes the calendar, such as a heading or external label, allowing assistive tech to announce that element as the calendar title.    |
| `autoFocus`       | `boolean`                                 | Autofocus the calendar when it opens, improving keyboard navigation.                                                                                                   |

### Autofocusing the Calendar {#autofocus}

DayPicker automatically manages focus when users interact with the calendar. To enhance accessibility, you can autofocus the calendar when it opens by using the `autoFocus` prop:

```tsx
<DayPicker mode="single" autoFocus />
```

## Keyboard Navigation

DayPicker supports keyboard navigation to make it easier for users to navigate the calendar. The following keys are supported:

| Keys                           | Function                             |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------ |
| <kbd>Arrow Up</kbd>            | Move focus to the previous week.     |
| <kbd>Shift + Arrow Up</kbd>    | Move focus to the previous year.     |
| <kbd>Arrow Right</kbd>         | Move focus to the next day.          |
| <kbd>Shift + Arrow Right</kbd> | Move focus to the next month.        |
| <kbd>Arrow Down</kbd>          | Move focus to the next week.         |
| <kbd>Shift + Arrow Down</kbd>  | Move focus to the next year.         |
| <kbd>Arrow Left</kbd>          | Move focus to the previous day.      |
| <kbd>Shift + Arrow Left</kbd>  | Move focus to the previous month.    |
| <kbd>Page Up</kbd>             | Move focus to the previous month.    |
| <kbd>Page Down</kbd>           | Move focus to the next month.        |
| <kbd>Shift + Page Up</kbd>     | Move focus to the previous year.     |
| <kbd>Shift + Page Down</kbd>   | Move focus to the next year.         |
| <kbd>Home</kbd>                | Move focus to the start of the week. |
| <kbd>End</kbd>                 | Move focus to the end of the week.   |
| <kbd>Enter/Space</kbd>         | Select the focused day.              |

## Getting Help With Accessibility

Accessibility is an evolving field. If you find any accessibility issues with DayPicker, please [open an issue](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/issues/new/choose). Your feedback helps improve our library's accessibility.

Check out the [current accessibility issues](https://github.com/gpbl/react-day-picker/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Aaccessibility+sort%3Aupdated-desc).
