website/docs/basics/selecting-days.mdx, before:

# Selecting Days

DayPicker supports four selection modes:

- single mode: only a single day can be selected
- multiple mode: allow selection of multiple days
- range mode: allow the selection of range of days
- uncontrolled: let the parent component handle the selection

## Single selection mode

To enable single day selection, set `mode="single"` and use `onSelect` to get
the selected day.

```include
selecting-days-single.tsx
```

### Making a selection required

To make a selection required, use `defautSelected` with `required`.

For example, to set the default selected date to today:

```include
selecting-days-single-min.tsx
```

## Selecting multiple days

Use `mode="multiple"` to allow the selection of multiple days:

```include
selecting-days-multiple.tsx
```

### Limiting the amount of selectable days

Use the `min` and `max` props to limit the amount of days that can be selected.

```include
selecting-days-multiple-min-max.tsx
```

## Selecting a range of days

Use `mode="range"` and `onSelectRange` to allow the selection of multiple days.

```include
selecting-days-range.tsx
```

### Limiting the range size

Use the `min` and `max` props to limit the amount of days in the range.

```include
selecting-days-range-min-max.tsx
```

## Uncontrolled selection mode

If the built-in selection modes are not enough for your app’s requirements, you
can control the selection behavior using `mode="uncontrolled"`. See the [Custom
Selections guide](/guides/custom-selections) for more details.

Commit message:

feat: Allow fully "controlled" range and multiple modes
Additionally, renaming mode="uncontrolled" to mode="custom" -- since the definition in mode is the exact opposite of our other definition:

In the _new_ definition, here's what the two mean:
controlled means the user passes in the state
uncontrolled means the component manages the state for us, but we can pass in some default state

I actually found an example in the documentation of this definition:

> To control the current month, use `month` (as opposed to `defaultMonth`) and `onMonthChange` to handle the current month.

website/docs/basics/selecting-days.mdx, after:

# Selecting Days

DayPicker supports four selection modes:

- single mode: only a single day can be selected
- multiple mode: allow selection of multiple days
- range mode: allow the selection of range of days
- custom: let the parent component handle the selection

## Single selection mode

To enable single day selection, set `mode="single"` and use `onSelect` to get
the selected day.

```include
selecting-days-single.tsx
```

### Making a selection required

To make a selection required, use `defautSelected` with `required`.

For example, to set the default selected date to today:

```include
selecting-days-single-min.tsx
```

## Selecting multiple days

Use `mode="multiple"` to allow the selection of multiple days:

```include
selecting-days-multiple.tsx
```


## Selecting multiple days - controlled

If you like the behavior of mode="multiple" but need the ability to sometimes
programmatically update the selected dates, you can control them.

Use `selected` instead of `defaultSelected`, and be sure to use `null` and 
never use `undefined` for the value of the `selected` property.

```include
selecting-days-multiple-controlled.tsx
```

### Limiting the amount of selectable days

Use the `min` and `max` props to limit the amount of days that can be selected.

```include
selecting-days-multiple-min-max.tsx
```

## Selecting a range of days

Use `mode="range"` and `onSelectRange` to allow the selection of multiple days.

```include
selecting-days-range.tsx
```

## Selecting a range of days - controlled

If you like the behavior of mode="range" but need the ability to sometimes
programmatically update the selected range, you can control the selected range.

Use `selected` instead of `defaultSelected`, and be sure to use `null` and 
never use `undefined` for the value of the `selected` property.

```include
selecting-days-range-controlled.tsx
```


### Limiting the range size

Use the `min` and `max` props to limit the amount of days in the range.

```include
selecting-days-range-min-max.tsx
```

## Custom selection mode

If the built-in selection modes are not enough for your app’s requirements, you
can control the selection behavior using `mode="custom"`. See the [Custom
Selections guide](/guides/custom-selections) for more details.
